1. Which are the advantages of functions in python?
a) Reducing duplication of code
b) Decomposing complex problems into simpler pieces
c) Improving clarity of the code
d) All of the mentioned


 Answer: d
Explanation: None. 



2. What are the two main types of functions?
a) Custom function
b) Built-in function & User defined function
c) User function
d) System function


 Answer: b
Explanation: Built-in functions and user defined ones. The built-in functions are part of the Python language. Examples are: dir(), len() or abs(). The user defined functions are functions created with the def keyword. 



3. Where is function defined?
a) Module
b) Class
c) Another function
d) All of the mentioned


 Answer: d
Explanation: Functions can be defined inside a module, a class or another function. 



4. What is called when a function is defined inside a class?
a) Module
b) Class
c) Another function
d) Method


 Answer: d
Explanation: None. 



5. Which of the following is the use of id() function in python?
a) Id  returns the identity of the object
b) Every object doesn’t have a unique id
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned


 Answer:  a
Explanation: Each object in Python has a unique id. The id() function returns the object’s id. 



6. Which of the following refers to mathematical function?
a) sqrt
b) rhombus
c) add
d) rhombus


 Answer: a
Explanation: Functions that are always available for usage, functions that are contained within external modules, which must be imported and functions defined by a programmer with the def keyword.
Eg:  math import sqrt
A sqrt() function is imported from the math module.




(Python Function – 2) 7. What will be the output of the following Python code?

def cube(x):

a) 9
b) 3
c) 27
d) 30


 Answer: c
Explanation: A function is created to do a specific task. Often there is a result from such a task. The return keyword is used to return values from a function. A function may or may not return a value. If a function does not have a return keyword, it will send a none value. 



(Python Function – 2) 8. What will be the output of the following Python code?

    return x * x * x      

a)

 Answer: a
Explanation: The code shown above is used to convert a temperature in degree celsius to fahrenheit.




(Python Function – 2) 9. What will be the output of the following Python code?

x = cube(3)    

a)

 Answer: b
Explanation: The arguments in Python functions may have implicit values. An implicit value is used, if no value is provided. Here we created a power function. The function has one argument with an implicit value. We can call the function with one or two arguments. 



(Python Function – 2) 10. What will be the output of the following Python code?

print x

a)

 Answer: a
Explanation: We use the * operator to indicate, that the function will accept arbitrary number of arguments. The sum() function will return the sum of all arguments. The first string in the function body is called the function documentation string. It is used to document the function. The string must be in triple quotes. 