1. Which are the two built-in functions to read a line of text from standard input, which by default comes from the keyboard?
a) Raw_input & Input
b) Input & Scan
c) Scan & Scanner
d) Scanner


 Answer: a
Explanation: Python provides two built-in functions to read a line of text from standard input, which by default comes from the keyboard. These functions are:
raw_input and input 



(Python Files – 2) 2. What will be the output of the following Python code?

str = raw_input("Enter your input: ");

a)

 Answer: a
Explanation: The raw_input([prompt]) function reads one line from standard input and returns it as a string. This would prompt you to enter any string and it would display same string on the screen. When I typed “Hello Python!” 



(Python Files – 2) 3. What will be the output of the following Python code?

print "Received input is : ", str

a)

 Answer: a
Explanation: None. 



4. Which one of the following is not attributes of file?
a) closed
b) softspace
c) rename
d) mode


 Answer: c
Explanation: rename is not the attribute of file rest all are files attributes.
Attribute	Description
file.closed	Returns true if file is closed, false otherwise.
file.mode	Returns access mode with which file was opened.
file.name	Returns name of the file.
file.softspace	Returns false if space explicitly required with print, true otherwise.




5. What is the use of tell() method in python?
a) tells you the current position within the file
b) tells you the end position within the file
c) tells you the file is opened or not
d) none of the mentioned


 Answer: a
Explanation: The tell() method tells you the current position within the file; in other words, the next read or write will occur at that many bytes from the beginning of the file. 



6. What is the current syntax of rename() a file?
a) rename(current_file_name, new_file_name)
b) rename(new_file_name, current_file_name,)
c) rename(()(current_file_name, new_file_name))
d) none of the mentioned


 Answer: a
Explanation: This is the correct syntax which has shown below.
rename(current_file_name, new_file_name) 



7. What is the current syntax of remove() a file?
a) remove(file_name)
b) remove(new_file_name, current_file_name,)
c) remove(() , file_name))
d) none of the mentioned


 Answer: a
Explanation: remove(file_name) 



(Python Files – 2) 8. What will be the output of the following Python code?

str = input("Enter your input: ");

a) Compilation Error
b) Syntax Error
c) Displays  Output
d) None of the mentioned


 Answer: c
Explanation: It displays the output as shown below. The method next() is used when a file is used as an iterator, typically in a loop, the next() method is called repeatedly. This method returns the next input line, or raises StopIteration when EOF is hit.
Output:
Name of the file:  foo.txt
Line No 0 - This is 1st line

Line No 1 - This is 2nd line

Line No 2 - This is 3rd line

Line No 3 - This is 4th line

Line No 4 - This is 5th line




9. What is the use of seek() method in files?
a) sets the file’s current position at the offset
b) sets the file’s previous position at the offset
c) sets the file’s current position within the file
d) none of the mentioned


 Answer:  a
Explanation: Sets the file’s current position at the offset. The method seek() sets the file’s current position at the offset.
Following is the syntax for seek() method:
fileObject.seek(offset[, whence])
Parameters
offset — This is the position of the read/write pointer within the file.
whence — This is optional and defaults to 0 which means absolute file positioning, other values are 1 which means seek relative to the current position and 2 means seek relative to the file’s end.




10. What is the use of truncate() method in file?
a) truncates the file size
b) deletes the content of the file
c) deletes the file size
d) none of the mentioned


 Answer: a
Explanation: The method truncate() truncates the file size. Following is the syntax for truncate() method:
fileObject.truncate( [ size ])
Parameters
size — If this optional argument is present, the file is truncated to (at most) that size. 